Let's thank God for our choir.
I want to read two verses, verses 19 and verse 20, rather verses 19 through 21 of Matthew chapter one.
than Joseph, her husband being a just man.
Some translations say righteous man.
And not wanting to make her a public example was minded to put her away secretly.
While he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream saying, Joseph, son of David,
do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife.
For that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit.
And she will bring forth the Son, and you shall call His name Jesus, but He will save His people from their sins.
Amen.
One preach as Holy Spirit shall give me help, as you shall pray for and with me from
This topic, God has a plan.
God has a plan.
Look at your neighbor's smile, say neighbor.
Regardless of your plan, God's plan is better.
Lord bless your word.
Bless your preacher.
Bless the heroes of your word.
Remove every distraction, obstacle and barrier.
So we might hear from you.
Have your way in Jesus name.
Amen.
Life is full of choices.
decisions and plans.
We are not making a choice about something than we are making a decision about something else.
If we are not making a decision about something, then we are planning a new initiative or endeavor in our lives.
Either we are making a choice, decision or plan.
Constantly, we are confronted with choices, decisions and plans, whether it is the choice to arise early in the morning or the choice to sleep in late because it's holiday season.
We are always making choices, whether it is the decision to apply for the position that has your name written all over it, or the decision to do what you've been doing until you retire.
We are constantly making decisions, whether it is the plan
to go back to school, earn another degree, or the plan to relocate out of the triangle.
We are constantly making plans.
Either we are confronted with choices, decisions, or plans.
But either way, annually, quarterly,
monthly, weekly, day by day, and sometimes moment by moment.
We are making choices, decisions or plans.
According to this New Testament text, Joseph is confronted with a circumstance that is causing him to make choices
decisions and plans.
A few days ago, Joseph's life was less complicated, less chaotic, and less full of drama.
But one day, he receives word from his soon to be wife that she is pregnant, and it's not his.
She's pregnant, according to her testimony, not by Tyrone, but she is pregnant for those who've known the Greek language by the Hageasnuma, the Holy Ghost.
Joseph is not a carnal, thugged out man.
Matthew says, Joseph is a righteous man.
As a righteous man, Joseph is not impulsive, impetuous, impatient, but Joseph begins to think and pray, begins to pray and think, begins to pray and think and think and pray even more.
And he decides, brothers and sisters, to use that
phrase that we have always used.
It's me, not you.
The timing is not right.
I'm in my feelings.
I got some stuff going on.
I'm not going to be a good husband, so I'm going to wave the white flag and bow out.
Joseph has a plan, yet
While Joseph has a plan watch chapel, God also has a plan.
Joseph has a plan to put her awake quietly.
Joseph has a plan to not put it on blast.
Joseph has a plan to do it with discretion and confidentiality lest Mary be embarrassed
and deemed as out of her mind.
But despite the plan that Joseph has, God has a plan for Joseph to be the earthly father of his son, Jesus Christ.
And despite the plan that Joseph has to put her awake quietly, the text says that as God communicates with Joseph
Joseph begins to cooperate with the plan of Almighty God.
And I don't know who I'm talking to on this Sunday before Christmas day, but somebody has a plan that you have concocted, imagined, and dreamed.
But on this day, I'm challenging you to submit and surrender
and cooperate with God's plan that might not be aligned with your plan.
I don't know who I'm talking to, but all of us have some plans.
And our plans are not always evil, our plans are not always carnal.
Some of our plans are virtuous, righteous, upstanding, and holy.
But God is calling me and you and watch chapel to cooperate with the plan of God for our lives.
Can I preach on this Sunday morning?
We have a plan to invest in cryptocurrency and Bitcoin, but God has a plan for us to become tithers and givers.
We have a plan to get some get back.
But God has a plan for us to let it go and forgive.
We have a plan to be nasty.
But God has a plan for us to love our neighbor as God loves us.
Can I preach on this Sunday morning?
We have a plan to celebrate Rudolph's Santa Claus Frosty, the elves, and have some mistletoe and some eggnog.
but God has a plan for us to celebrate the birth of His Son, Jesus Christ.
Regardless of what plans we have, on this day, God is challenging and calling all of us from the pulpit to the quiet stand to the parking lot to cooperate with the plan of God for our lives.
Somebody raises the question, preacher,
How do I cooperate with God's plan?
Joseph had a plan watch chapel as we have read to put her away quietly.
Joseph said, I can't do this.
You young, you'll find somebody else.
You find, but I just, I ain't the one.
How do you cooperate with God's plan?
Can I preach this?
And I'm talking about Joseph, but I'm talking about every believer who has gathered because we are bright.
We are intelligent.
We are creative.
We are ingenious.
And we have plans for our lives that we have concocted.
We have dreamed up, but our plans are not always consistent with the plan of Almighty God.
Do I have a witness?
And if left to our devices, preach this, Harry, we will follow through on our plan and neglect God's plan.
Consequently, we will be a fraction of who God wants us to be because we have followed our will, but not the will of Almighty God.
I cooperate with God's plan by fighting my fears.
If anybody was afraid, Joseph was afraid.
I need all the brothers to work with me and say amen.
Brothers, young woman, amen, has been avoiding you.
Come on now and tells you she's pregnant.
Amen.
I wish I could preach this to a 25 and overcrowd.
She pregnant and y'all have not even held hands.
Y'all get it now.
And not only is she pregnant, she ain't pregnant by Tyrone, but she's pregnant by a ghost.
I'm born at night, but I wasn't born last night.
I got a sense of humor, but I ain't crazy.
You pregnant and you pregnant by a ghost.
Okay.
Joseph is afraid, angry, annoyed, frustrated, because you think I fell off an apple truck
But if I follow through with this, I'ma look like the town fool.
If you go to the barbershop, and folk know that your woman is pregnant by a ghost, and you show up every Friday as you normally show it when you walk in the barbershop,
When you come to watch chapel on Sunday morning, you got to sit over in the back and duck your head down with a sheisty on, because you don't want anybody knowing who you are and the circumstances you're living with.
He the one.
Yeah, Mary's dude.
The one, yeah, good job, but he crazy.
Because she told him, she pregnant by a ghost.
And Joseph has to be afraid.
Afraid of losing his upstanding reputation.
Afraid of being played by a fool.
Afraid of looking like a fool.
Afraid of being played.
Afraid of being betrayed.
But the text says the angel says fear, not.
And watch that, but if we are going to cooperate with the plan of God, we have to fight our fears.
I don't know who I'm talking to on this Sunday morning, but everybody is afraid of something.
We are either motivated by love, or we are led by fear.
And sometimes we have not become who God says we can become, because fear has us led astray.
And unless you are now learned how to fight our fears, we will never cooperate with the plan of Almighty God.
What are you afraid of on this Sunday morning?
Are you afraid of being by yourself?
God is a comfort keeper who will never leave us alone.
Are you afraid of not having enough?
My God shall supply all of our needs according to His riches in glory.
Are you afraid of how the future is going to turn out?
All things work together for the good of them that love the Lord.
and are called according to his purpose.
Are you afraid of God not meeting your needs, my God?
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want."
What are you afraid of on this Sunday morning?
You and I have to learn to fight our fears.
If we don't fight our fears, our fears will be loud, our fears will intimidate us, our fears will hold us back, our fears will lead us astray, and our fears will have us less than who God says we can become.
Joseph cooperates with the plan of God by fighting his fears.
But cooperation with the plan of God just does not mean fighting our fears.
Cooperating with the plan of God means that we put revelation above reason.
Revelation is the word of God.
Revelation is Genesis to Revelation.
Revelation is what God says through
the man or woman of God on Sunday, Wednesday, and any other day we expose ourselves to the word of God.
Revelation is, that word is a lamp unto my feet and a light unto my pathway.
Revelation is heaven and earth shall pass away, but the word of God will stand forever.
Can I preach this?
Revelation is what Jeremiah had when he said it's like fire.
Shut up in my bones.
Revelation is the true, unadulterated word of God.
And Joseph, as he is wrestling with choices, decisions and plans, cooperates with the plan of God, but not just fighting his fears, but by putting revelation above reason.
Reason says,
She crazy.
Let me be done with her.
Put her away quietly.
Lay low, come back and bounce back.
That's reason.
Revelation says she ain't crazy.
What is in her is of the Holy Spirit.
And not just a bouncing baby boy, but the Christ child.
And I want you to name him Jesus, because he'll save your people from their sins.
Can I preach this?
Watch that, but sometimes even in the body of Christ called church, we are so led by reason that we ignore revelation.
Yes, you are smart, you are bright, you are intelligent, you are
Technologically sophisticated, you are aware, you are articulate, yet revelation on a Trump reason.
Trust in the Lord with all that heart.
Lean not to thine own understanding in all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he will direct thy path.
That's revelation.
Commit your way unto the Lord, and he will allow you to succeed
That is revelation.
Goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.
Bring the tithe, give the offering, and I'll open the windows of heaven.
Pour out so much blessing you won't have room to receive it.
That is revelation.
Forgive your neighbor as he has wronged you.
If he smacked you on one cheek, turn the other cheek.
Help me preach this.
That is revelation.
But sometimes we are so led by reason.
Let me do my good preaching and challenge everybody.
We know more reason than we do revelation.
And maybe that's why the church doesn't have the power we should have.
That's maybe why some of us have missed out on God's will and are not cooperating with God's will.
We know everything, but we don't know revelation.
Can I preach this?
We can quote the temptation, silent night.
We can quote the Migos, Hannah Montana, but we can quote scripture.
Y'all ain't talking to me.
We can quote Biggie and Tupac from the 90s, but we can quote scripture.
We can quote everything from the Diddy documentary, but we can quote scripture.
Ain't nobody talking to me on this Sunday morning.
We can quote superstitions, but we can quote revelation.
But what if we invested the time we invested in every other thing in revelation and put revelation above reason?
Consequently, we could cooperate with the will of God and become who God wants us to become.
Ah, let me.
Mary, she ain't crazy.
She's impregnated by the Holy Ghost.
Name the boy, Jesus, cause Jesus means savior of their sins.
I'm cooperating with God's plan by fighting my fears.
I'm cooperating with God's plan by putting
revelation above reason.
But I'm cooperating with God's plan by following through with faith.
It's one thing to know what to do.
But it's another thing to follow through on what I know.
We don't have an information problem.
We got to follow through problem.
Can I preach this?
Am I talking to anybody other than myself?
I know what to do.
Come on now.
Go to bed early.
No screen time.
Get up before the cockros.
Spend time in the word.
Do my 10,000 steps.
Come on now.
Follow through is the challenge.
Am I talking to anybody in here?
Can I preach this to bless somebody and encourage somebody?
Don't let me just preach to myself.
I'm not the only one.
Or don't let me just do my good preaching to a convict myself.
How many of us know what to do?
Update the resume.
Keep my nose clean, dot my eyes, cross my teeth.
Don't drink no eggnog.
There's something called follow through.
And the text says that Joseph cooperates with the plan of God because Joseph follows through
with faith.
He is not holding hands with Mary until they are married.
And the text says, though his name is Joseph, and man in that culture named their child after themselves or another prominent male figure, he doesn't name the boy Joseph Jr. or Joseph II, but he names him Jesus.
He follows through by faith believing what God has said.
I'm about to close right now, but I'm encouraging somebody to follow through on what God has told you to do.
God has opened the door, but you've got to walk through the door.
God has led you to water, but you've got to drink the water.
God has answered your prayer, but you got to walk through and make room for the prayer that God has answered.
God is going to do what God said God is going to do, but you got to make room and prepare for God to do what God said God can do.
I'm encouraging somebody on this Sunday morning at the 8th, 30 hour to follow through by faith.
It ain't just follow through Pat Curry, but it's follow through by faith.
Because Joseph has to believe y'all ain't talking to me, that God is able to do what God said God can do.
And only God can I preach this, can allow the Holy Ghost to impregnate a virgin and produce a bouncing baby boy.
There's some things that don't make sense to us, but we got to follow through by faith.
Doesn't make sense that God can make it happen, but I dare you to follow through by faith.
Doesn't make sense that God can do it, but I dare you to follow through by faith.
Doesn't make sense that God can make your enemies behave, but you got to follow through by faith.
Doesn't make sense that God can use a poor, young, virgin woman to be the mother of the Christ child, but God is able.
I feel like preaching and closing right now.
Joseph is a holy man and a righteous man who's named after his great-great-grandfather, and Joseph knows something about what God has done and what God can do.
And I believe in my sanctified imagination that Joseph is following through by faith because he's recalling what God has done.
And I dare somebody to believe and remember and rehearse what God has done.
Joseph knows about his father Abraham and how God used an old man by the name of Abraham to produce a bouncing boy by the name of Isaac.
I said God is able.
God knows about Moses and how God led Moses to part the Red Sea and Israel to walk across on dry land.
God is able.
Joseph knows about how God made the sun start shining and allowed the people to walk
through a cloud bath pyre and a pillar by night.
God is able.
God Joseph knows something about his woman's cousin, a old woman, by the name of Elizabeth.
How God allowed an old man to impregnate her and produce John the Baptist.
God is able.
And I dare you to follow through by faith, because you know and believe God is able.
Do I have a witness in here?
Who can testify?
I got my own testimony.
I got my own story.
I shouldn't be alive, but God is able.
I should still be in the projects, but God is able.
I shouldn't have it out of the farm, but God is able.
Shouldn't have made it out of foster care, but God is able.
Do I have a witness on this Sunday morning?
that I know God is able.
I'm done staying to your feet.
Look at your neighbor, say, God has a plan.
Look on the other side, say, God has a plan.
What if Joseph had said, no, I'm good.
God, my plan is better than your plan.
I wouldn't 2,000 years later, I wouldn't be preaching about Joseph.
And guess what, if God don't use Joseph, he will use Tyrone.
Come on out, come on out.
We ain't the only one God can use.
We can mess around and think we indispensable all we want to.
God have provided a ram in the bush, amen.
If God don't use Mary, he'll use Chanate, he'll use Tyrone.
Come on now.
What is the plan of God that God has been telling you?
But we've been avoiding it.
We've been resisting.
We've been rebelling.
God told you to let that go.
Pray, not cuss.
God told you to celebrate Jesus.
Ain't no wrong with Santa, but put Jesus first.
You ripping, you running for gifts for one day.
Come on now.
I never forget when our first daughter was born, we bought her a bunch of gifts.
She planned with the pots and pans.
The pots and the pans in the kitchen.
We got the gifts right here.
She walked past the gifts, she went into pots and pans in the middle of the kitchen floor.
I'll be diagnosed it.
You fussing and falling out, amen, this week.
Over gifts.
Come on, I'm talking to somebody.
I'm talking to somebody this morning.
God has a plan for you, brother.
God has a plan for you, sister.
I want you to walk down the aisle, accept the gift of Jesus Christ, unite with watch chapel.
That's God's plan for your life, my brother.
God's plan for your life, my sister, to become a believer, to become a man or woman or God, to become a child of God.
You're not saved today.
I want you to walk down the aisle, accept the gift of salvation,
You're saved, but you don't have a church home.
You'll hear every Sunday your family's here, but you're not here.
Today's the day for you going into this new year, this Sunday before Christmas to accept the greatest gift of all, the gift of Jesus Christ.
If you're already saved, come unite with the church.
You need a church family.
Today is cooperation day.
What if we were just more cooperative?
Maybe that's the word that we take in the next year.
Cooperation.
Marriages would be stronger.
Families would have less drama.
Church would be stronger.
If I cooperate with God's plan for my life, is there one this morning?
Lord, I pray right now that you draw somebody who needs a church home, draw somebody who needs a savior, draw somebody who needs a church family.
I pray right now for somebody to cooperate with the plan of God by walking down the aisle, giving their life to the Lord Jesus Christ, making watch chapel their church home.
Have your way, God.
Bless now in Jesus name, amen.
Is there one this morning?
You're here, my brother, you're here, my sister.
You need a savior, you need a church family.
Repeat after me, God, I thank you for the gift of salvation.
I admit that I'm a sinner.
I believe that Jesus died for me.
I confess Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of my life.
And I'm going to do what the Lord tells me to do.
Amen.
That's the first time you've prayed that prayer.
I want you to walk forward.
If you prayed that prayer before you comprehend it, you digested, be seated.
Let's give the Lord a hand praise for the gift of salvation.
Watch table on Wednesday.
Let's not forget to pray for each other.
Pray for people who are grieving and for whom this holiday season is difficult.
Amen.
We'll be here next Sunday 8 30 and 10 30 New Year's Eve 12 noon, six o'clock p.m. Pray about, start praying about what God wants you to fast from during these 21 days.
Let's stand to our feet for the benediction.
May the grace of our Lord and Savior, the love of God, fellowship of the Holy Spirit, rest, rule that abide with us until we shall meet again.
The people of God said amen.
Amen.